# 0.2 to 0.3

This page explains how to migrate from `coola` 0.2 to 0.3.
`coola` 0.3 introduces several major non-backward compatible changes:

- `objects_are_equal`
- `objects_are_allclose` -> `objects_are_close`
- The equality mechanism was fully redesigned in `coola` 0.3.

## `objects_are_equal`

The signature of the `objects_are_equal` function was updated and only the first two arguments can
be provided as positional arguments.
All the other arguments need to be provided as keyword arguments.
`coola` 0.3 also introduces a new parameter `equal_nan` to `objects_are_equal` to indicate whether
to compare NaN’s as equal.
To keep the behavior similar as `coola` 0.2, the default value of `equal_nan` is `False`.

```pycon title="coola 0.2 (old)"
>>> from coola import objects_are_equal
>>> objects_are_equal(float("nan"), float("nan"))
False

```

```pycon title="coola 0.3 (new)"
>>> from coola import objects_are_equal
>>> objects_are_equal(float("nan"), float("nan"))
False
>>> objects_are_equal(float("nan"), float("nan"), equal_nan=True)
True

```

## `objects_are_close`

You will need replace `objects_are_allclose` by the new function `objects_are_close`.
`objects_are_allclose` has been deprecated in `coola` 0.3. and will be removed in a future release.
Note that in `coola` 0.3, both functions return the same output but `objects_are_allclose` will show
a warning message.
Similarly to the `objects_are_equal` function, only the first two arguments can be provided as
positional arguments to `objects_are_close`.
All the other arguments need to be provided as keyword arguments.

**Migration example**

For example, the following lines:

```pycon title="coola 0.2 (old)"
>>> from coola import objects_are_allclose
>>> objects_are_allclose(1, 1.001, atol=0.01)
True

```

should be replaced by these lines:

```pycon title="coola 0.3 (new)"
>>> from coola import objects_are_close
>>> objects_are_close(1, 1.001, atol=0.01)
True

```

## Equality mechanism

The equality mechanism was fully redesigned in `coola` 0.3 to merge the two existing equality
mechanisms.
In `coola` 0.2, there were two equality mechanisms:

- a mechanism to check if two objects are equal (mechanism behind `objects_are_equal`)
- a mechanism to check if two objects are equal within tolerance (mechanism
  behind `objects_are_allclose`)

For each new type to support, it was necessary to implement two comparators: one inheriting
from `BaseEqualityOperator` and another one inheriting from `BaseAllCloseOperator`.
This approach was not scalable because there were a lot of overlap and duplicate code between the
two mechanisms.
In the long term, it will make the code easier to maintain and extend.
The new equality mechanism combines two previous equality mechanisms in a single equality mechanism.

`BaseEqualityOperator` has a new API which is similar but not directly compatible with the old API.
The new API introduces a new data structure `EqualityConfig` to keep the API simpler and to make the
fusion easier.

- `EqualityConfig` stores all the parameters that controls the equality mechanism, like the absolute
  or relative tolerance thresholds.
- The class `BaseAllCloseOperator` has been removed as well as all its child classes.
- `coola.comparators` -> `coola.equality.comparators`
- `coola.testers` -> `coola.equality.testers`

Below is a simplified version of the API. Please check the code to see all the details.

```python title="coola 0.3 (new API)"
from abc import ABC, abstractmethod
from typing import Any, Generic, TypeVar

from coola.equality.config import EqualityConfig

T = TypeVar("T")


class BaseEqualityComparator(ABC, Generic[T]):
    @abstractmethod
    def equal(self, object1: T, object2: Any, config: EqualityConfig) -> bool:
        pass
```

Note that it will not be necessary to change the overall logic inside the `equal` method.
